- [Instructor] In this lesson,
we'll learn how to use content negotiation
to define different response formats for API operations.
Currently, we've defined all of our API responses
in a JSON format.
Sometimes you'll need to use other formats like xml.
With the introduction of content negotiation
in OAS 3.0, we have the ability to accept or provide
multiple media types for our API operations.
Let's leverage this new feature
by providing an xml response from our product endpoint
that uses a template parameter.
You'll see how extremely simple this is
once we work through our example.
You'll notice that we have our product endpoint
using the template parameter,
and within this operation,
we have defined our JSON response.
All we need to do is specify a second media type,
right in line with the first,
and in this case, it's going to be application/xml.
And then we just specify the schema object
and we point to our reusable product component.
And at this point if we take a look at
our API documentation, here we see
the product/template parameter product ID endpoint,
and within this Get operation, we can inspect the responses.
You'll notice there's dropdown
and the first option in the dropdown
is the JSON media type but we can now switch
to the xml media type and we're able to see
a response in xml format.
So the addition of content negotiation
allows us to easily describe other response formats
within our API documentation.
This can be very handy when dealing with legacy services
that may provide xml responses.
Now we're not going to be using xml
throughout the remainder of the course.
So I am going to go ahead
and remove this definition before proceeding.
But if your API requires it,
you now know how to use xml
through the content negotiation feature.